TechDocs/Markdown/index.md, before:

---
nav_order: 0
---
## #FreeGEOS technical documentation

#FreeGEOS comes with extensive technical documentation that describes tools, programming languages and API calls from the perspective of an SDK user. This documentation can be found in the `TechDocs` folder and is available in Markdown format. Its starting point is the GEOS SDK 2.0, which provides good coverage of the major architectural building blocks of the system, and includes the most comprehensive technical writing. It was originally published as a multi-volume library of physical books.

Here are some entry points to the main volumes:

- Introduction
  - [Tutorial](tutorial.md): the initial chapters describing the development environment are somewhat outdated, and still refer to the original two-machine setup for debugging, but this nevertheless gives a good idea of overall development process.
  - [Concepts](concepts.md)
  - [Tools](tools.md)
- C development
  - [GOC keywords and API calls](routines.md)
  - [Objects Reference](objects.md)
  - [Quick Reference](quickref.md)
- Assembly development
  - [ESP Assembly Language](esp.md)
  - [Assembly Reference](asmref.md)
  - [Driver Development Kit](ddk.md)
- _Third Party software_: this could become a place in the future to document add-on software in this repository that was developed by people/companies other than Geoworks (e.g. Breadbox, New Deal)
- [Device Specifics](devices.md): developer information about various "historic" PDAs and smartphones that were shipped with GEOS.
  - Casio Z-7000 ("Zoomer")
  - Nokia 9000/9110 Communicator
- Original [credits](credits.md) of the GEOS Software Development Kit Library 2.0

Commit message:

More techdocs changes... (#999)
* Techdocs website: add github link to header

* Fix HugeArrayLock documentation

* Correct description of sharedTokenDatabase key in INI

* Techdocs website: get just-the-docs template from support branch with all unreleased fixes for FreeGEOS

* Add screenshot to Techdocs  index and README

TechDocs/Markdown/index.md, after:

---
nav_order: 0
---
## #FreeGEOS technical documentation

#FreeGEOS comes with extensive technical documentation that describes tools, programming languages and API calls from the perspective of an SDK user. This documentation can be found in the `TechDocs` folder and is available in Markdown format. It is based on the GEOS SDK 2.0, which provides good coverage of the major architectural building blocks of the system, and includes the most comprehensive technical writing. It was originally published as a multi-volume library of physical books.

![Screenshot showing a typical GEOS desktop](Art/title-screenshot.png)

Here are some entry points to the main volumes:

- Introduction
  - [Tutorial](tutorial.md): the initial chapters describing the development environment are somewhat outdated, and still refer to the original two-machine setup for debugging, but this nevertheless gives a good idea of overall development process.
  - [Concepts](concepts.md)
  - [Tools](tools.md)
- C development
  - [GOC keywords and API calls](routines.md)
  - [Objects Reference](objects.md)
  - [Quick Reference](quickref.md)
- Assembly development
  - [ESP Assembly Language](esp.md)
  - [Assembly Reference](asmref.md)
  - [Driver Development Kit](ddk.md)
- _Third Party software_: this could become a place in the future to document add-on software in this repository that was developed by people/companies other than Geoworks (e.g. Breadbox, New Deal)
- [Device Specifics](devices.md): developer information about various "historic" PDAs and smartphones that were shipped with GEOS.
  - Casio Z-7000 ("Zoomer")
  - Nokia 9000/9110 Communicator
- Original [credits](credits.md) of the GEOS Software Development Kit Library 2.0
