'\" Copyright 1989 Regents of the University of California
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
'\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby
'\" granted, provided that this notice appears in all copies.
'\" The University of California makes no representations about
'\" the suitability of this material for any purpose.  It is
'\" provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
'\" 
'\" $Header: /sprite/src/lib/tcl/RCS/Tcl.man,v 1.17 90/01/18 10:42:37 ouster Exp $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
'
.so \*(]ltmac.sprite
.HS Tcl tcl
.BS
.SH NAME
Tcl \- overview of tool command language facilities
.BE

.SH INTRODUCTION
.PP
Tcl stands for ``tool command language'' and is pronounced ``tickle.''
It is actually two things:
a language and a library.
First, Tcl is a simple textual language,
intended primarily for issuing commands to interactive programs such
as text editors, debuggers, illustrators, and shells.  It has
a simple syntax and is also programmable, so
Tcl users can write command procedures to provide more powerful
commands than those in the built-in set.
.PP
Second, Tcl is a library package that can be embedded in application
programs.  The Tcl library consists of a parser for the Tcl
language, routines to implement the Tcl built-in commands, and
procedures that allow each application to extend Tcl with additional
commands specific to that application.  The application program
generates Tcl commands and passes them to the Tcl parser for
execution.  Commands may be generated
by reading characters from an input
source, or by associating command strings with elements of the
application's user interface, such as menu entries, buttons, or
keystrokes.
When the Tcl library receives commands it parses them
into component fields and executes built-in commands directly.
For commands implemented by the
application, Tcl calls back to the application to execute the
commands.  In many cases commands will invoke recursive invocations
of the Tcl interpreter by passing in additional strings to execute
(procedures, looping commands, and conditional commands all work
in this way).
.PP
An application program gains three advantages by using Tcl for
its command language.  First, Tcl provides a standard syntax:  once
users know Tcl, they will be able to issue commands easily
to any Tcl-based application.  Second, Tcl provides programmability.
All a Tcl application needs to do is to implement a few
application-specific low-level commands.  Tcl provides many utility
commands plus a general programming interface for building up
complex command procedures.  By using Tcl, applications need not
re-implement these features.  Third, Tcl will eventually provide
a mechanism for communicating between applications:  it will be
possible to send Tcl commands from one application to another.
The common Tcl language framework will make it easier for applications
to communicate with one another.  The communication features are not
implemented in the current version of Tcl.
.PP
This manual page focusses primarily on the Tcl language.  It describes
the language syntax and the built-in commands that will be available in
any application based on Tcl.  The individual library
procedures are described in more detail in separate manual pages, one
per procedure.

.SH "INTERPRETERS"
.PP
The central data structure in Tcl is an interpreter (C type
``Tcl_Interp'').  An interpreter consists of a set of command
bindings, a set of variable values, and a few other miscellaneous
pieces of state.  Each Tcl command is interpreted in the context
of a particular interpreter.
Some Tcl-based applications will maintain
multiple interpreters simultaneously, each associated with a
different widget or portion of the application.
Interpreters are relatively lightweight structures.  They can
be created and deleted quickly, so application programmers should feel free to
use multiple interpreters if that simplifies the application.
Eventually Tcl will provide a mechanism for sending Tcl commands
and results back and forth between interpreters, even if the
interpreters are managed by different processes.

.SH "DATA TYPES"
.PP
Tcl supports only one type of data:  strings.  All commands,
all arguments to commands, all command results, and all variable values
are strings.
Where commands require numeric arguments or return numeric results,
the arguments and results are passed as strings.
Many commands expect their string arguments to have certain formats,
but this interpretation is
up to the individual commands.  For example, arguments often contain
Tcl command strings, which may get executed as part of the commands.
The easiest way to understand the Tcl interpreter is to remember that
everything is just an operation on a string.  In many cases Tcl constructs
will look similar to more structured constructs from other languages.
However, the Tcl constructs
are not structured at all;  they are just strings of characters, and this
gives them a different behavior than the structures they may look like.
.PP
Although the exact interpretation of a Tcl string depends on who is
doing the interpretation, there are three common forms that strings
take:  commands, expressions, and lists.  The major sections below
discuss these three forms in more detail.

.SH "BASIC COMMAND SYNTAX"
.PP
The Tcl language has syntactic similarities to both the Unix shells
and Lisp.  However, the interpretation of commands is different
in Tcl than in either of those other two systems.
A Tcl command string consists of one or more commands separated
by newline characters or semi-colons.
Each command consists of a collection of fields separated by
white space (spaces or tabs).
The first field must be the name of a command, and the
additional fields, if any, are arguments that will be passed to
that command.  For example, the command
.DS
\fBset a 22\fR
.DE
has three fields:  the first, \fBset\fR, is the name of a Tcl command, and
the last two, \fBa\fR and \fB22\fR, will be passed as arguments to
the \fBset\fR command.  The command name may refer either to a built-in
Tcl command, an application-specific command bound in with the library
procedure \fBTcl_CreateCommand\fR, or a command procedure defined with the
\fBproc\fR built-in command.
Arguments are passed literally as
text strings.  Individual commands may interpret those strings in any
fashion they wish.  The \fBset\fR command, for example, will treat its
first argument as the name of a variable and its second argument as a
string value to assign to that variable.  For other commands arguments
may be interpreted as integers, lists, file names, or Tcl commands.

.SH "COMMENTS"
.PP
If the first non-blank character in a command is \fB#\fR, then everything
from the \fB#\fR up through the next newline character is treated as
a comment and ignored.

.SH "GROUPING ARGUMENTS WITH BRACES"
.PP
Normally each argument field ends at the next white space, but
curly braces (``{'' and ``}'') may
be used to group arguments in different ways.  If an argument
field begins with a left brace, then the argument isn't
terminated by white space;  instead it ends at the matching
right brace.  Tcl will strip off the outermost layer of braces
before passing the argument to the command.  This provides a simple mechanism
for including white space in arguments.  For example, the
command
.DS
\fBset a {This is a single argument}\fR
.DE
will pass two arguments to \fBset\fR:  \fBa\fR and
\fBThis is a single argument\fR.  In the command
.DS
\fBset a {xyz a {b c d}}\fR
.DE
the \fBset\fR command will receive two arguments: \fBa\fR
and \fBxyz a {b c d}\fR.
.PP
When braces are in effect, the matching brace need not be on
the same line as the starting quote or brace;  in this case
the newline will be
included in the argument field along with any other characters up to the
matching quote or brace.  For example, the \fBeval\fR command
takes one
argument, which is a command string;  \fBeval\fR invokes the Tcl
interpreter to execute the command string.  The command
.DS
\fBeval {
	set a 22
	set b 33
}\fR
.DE
will assign the value \fB22\fR to \fBa\fR and \fB33\fR to \fBb\fR.
.PP
When an argument is in braces, then command, variable,
and backslash
substitutions do not occur as described below;  all Tcl does is to
strip off the outer layer of braces and pass the
contents to the command.
.PP
If the first character of a command field isn't a left
brace, then neither left nor right
braces in the field will be treated specially (except as part of
variable substitution;  see below).

.SH "COMMAND SUBSTITUTION WITH BRACKETS"
.PP
If an open bracket occurs in any of the fields of a command, then
command substitution occurs.  All of the text up to the matching
close bracket is treated as a Tcl command and executed immediately.
Then the result of that command is substituted for the bracketed
text.  For example, consider the command
.DS
\fBset a [set b]\fR
.DE
When the \fBset\fR command has only a single argument, it is the
name of a variable and \fBset\fR returns the contents of that
variable.  In this case, if variable \fBb\fR has the value \fBfoo\fR,
then the command above is equivalent to the command
.DS
\fBset a foo\fR
.DE
Brackets can be used in more complex ways.  For example, if the
variable \fBb\fR has the value \fBfoo\fR and the variable \fBc\fR
has the value \fBgorp\fR, then the command
.DS
\fBset a xyz[set b].[set c]\fR
.DE
is equivalent to the command
.DS
\fBset a xyzfoo.gorp\fR
.DE
A bracketed command need not be all on one line:  newlines within
brackets are treated as argument separators, not command separators.
If a field is enclosed in braces then the brackets and the characters
between them are not interpreted specially;  they are passed through
to the argument verbatim.

.SH "VARIABLE SUBSTITUTION WITH $"
.PP
The dollar sign (\fB$\fR) may be used as a special shorthand form
for substituting variables.  If \fB$\fR appears in an argument that
isn't enclosed in braces
then variable substitution will occur.  The characters after
the \fB$\fR, up to the first character that isn't a number, letter, or
underscore, are taken as a variable name and the string value of that
variable is substituted for the name.  Or, if the dollar sign is followed
by an open curly brace then the variable name consists of all the characters
up to the next close curly brace.  For example, if variable \fBfoo\fR
has the value \fBtest\fR, then the command
.DS C
\fBset a $foo.c\fR
.DE
is equivalent to the command
.DS C
\fBset a test.c\fR
.DE
and the command
.DS C
\fBset a abc${foo}bar\fR
.DE
is equivalent to the command
.DS C
\fBset a abctestbar\fR
.DE
Variable substitution does not occur in arguments that are enclosed
in braces:  the
dollar sign and variable name are passed through to the argument verbatim.
.PP
The dollar sign abbreviation is simply a shorthand form.  \fB$a\fR is
completely equivalent to \fB[set a]\fR;  it is provided as a convenience
to reduce typing.

.VS
.SH "SEPARATING COMMANDS WITH SEMI-COLONS"
.PP
Normally, each command occupies one line (the command is terminated by
a newline character).  However, semi-colon (``;'') is treated
as a command separator character;  multiple commands may be placed
on one line by separating them with a semi-colon.
.VE

.SH "BACKSLASH SUBSTITUTION"
.PP
Backslashes may be used to insert non-printing characters into
command fields and also to insert special characters like
braces and brackets into fields
without them being interpreted specially as described above.
The backslash sequences understood by the Tcl interpreter are
listed below.  In each case, the backslash
sequence is replaced by the given character:
.TP 20
\fB\eb\fR
Backspace (octal 10).
.TP 20
\fB\ee\fR
Escape (octal 33).
.TP 20
\fB\en\fR
Newline (octal 15).
.TP 20
\fB\et\fR
Tab (octal 11).
.TP 20
\fB\e{\fR
Left brace (``{'').
.TP 20
\fB\e}\fR
Right brace (``}'').
.TP 20
\fB\e[\fR
Open bracket (``['').
.TP 20
\fB\e]\fR
Close bracket (``]'').
.TP 20
\fB\e<space>\fR
Space (`` ''): doesn't terminate argument.
.br
.VS
.TP 20
\fB\e;\fR
Semi-colon: doesn't terminate command.
.TP 20
\fB\e"\fR
Double-quote.
.TP 20
\fB\e<newline>\fR
Nothing:  this effectively joins two lines together
into a single line.  This backslash feature is only provided
when parsing Tcl commands;  it is not supported by the
Tcl_Backslash procedure.
.VE
.TP 20
\fB\e\e\fR
Backslash (``\e'').
.TP 20
\fB\eC\fIx\fR
Control-\fIx\fR (\fIx\fR AND octal 037), for any ASCII \fIx\fR except \fBM\fR
(see below).
.TP 20
\fB\eM\fIx\fR
Meta-\fIx\fR (\fIx\fR OR octal 200), for any ASCII \fIx\fR.
.TP 20
\fB\eCM\fIx\fR
Control-meta-\fIx\fR ((\fIx\fR AND octal 037) OR octal 0200), for
any ASCII \fIx\fR.
.TP 20
\fB\e\fIddd\fR
The digits \fIddd\fR (one, two, or three of them) give the octal value of
the character.
.PP
For example, in the command
.DS
\fBset a \e{x\e[\e\0yz\e141\fR
.DE
the second argument to \fBset\fR will be ``\fB{x[\0yza\fR''.
.PP
If a backslash is followed by something other than one of the options
described above, then the backslash is transmitted to the argument
field without any special processing, and the Tcl scanner continues
normal processing with the next character.  For example, in the
command
.DS
\fBset \e*a \e\e\e{foo\fR
.DE
The first argument to \fBset\fR will be \fB\e*a\fR and the second
argument will be \fB\e{foo\fR.
.PP
If an argument is enclosed in braces, then backslash sequences inside
the argument are parsed but no substitution occurs:  the backslash
sequence is passed through to the argument as is, without making
any special interpretation of the characters in the backslash sequence.
In particular, backslashed braces are not counted in locating the
matching right brace that terminates the argument.
For example, in the
command
.DS
\fBset a {\e{abc}\fR
.DE
the second argument to \fBset\fR will be \fB\e{abc\fR.
.PP
This backslash mechanism is not sufficient to generate absolutely
any argument structure;  it only covers the
most common cases.  To produce particularly complicated arguments
it will probably be easiest to use the \fBformat\fR command along with
command substitution.

.SH "COMMAND SUMMARY"
.IP [1]
A command is just a string.
.IP [2]
Within a string commands are normally separated by newlines.
.IP [3]
If a command begins with a bracket then it is terminated by the matching
close bracket and newlines within the command are treated as white space.
.IP [4]
A command consists of fields.  The first field is the name of the command
and other fields are strings that are passed to that command as arguments.
.IP [5]
Fields are normally separated by white space.
.IP [6]
Braces defer interpretation of special characters.
If a field begins with a left brace, then it consists of everything
between the left brace and the matching right brace. The
braces themselves are not included in the argument.
No further processing is done on the information between the braces.
.IP [7]
If a field doesn't begin with a left brace, then backslash,
variable, and command substitution are done on the field.  Only a
single level of processing is done:  the results of one substitution
are not scanned again for further substitutions or any other
special treatment.  Substitution can
occur on \fIany\fR field of a command, including the command name
as well as the arguments.
.IP [8]
If the first non-blank character of a command is a \fB#\fR, everything
from the \fB#\fR up through the next newline is treated as a comment
and ignored.

.SH "EXPRESSIONS"
.PP
The second major interpretation applied to strings in Tcl is
as expressions.  Several commands, such as \fBexpr\fR, \fBfor\fR,
and \fBif\fR, treat some of their arguments as expressions and
call the Tcl expression processor (\fBTcl_Expr\fR) to evaluate them.
A Tcl expression has C-like syntax and evaluates to an integer
result.  Expressions
may contain integer values, variable names in \fB$\fR notation
(the variables' values must be integer strings),
commands (embedded in brackets) that produce integer string results,
parentheses for grouping, and operators.  Numeric values, whether they
are passed directly or through variable or command substitution, may
be specified either in decimal (the normal case), in octal (if the
first character of the value is \fB0\fR), or in hexadecimal (if the first
two characters of the value are \fB0x\fR).
The valid operators are listed
below, grouped in decreasing order of precedence:
.TP 20
\fB\-\0\0~\0\0!\fR
Unary minus, bit-wise NOT, logical NOT.
.TP 20
\fB*\0\0/\0\0%\fR
Multiply, divide, remainder.
.TP 20
\fB+\0\0\-\fR
Add and subtract.
.TP 20
\fB<<\0\0>>\fR
Left and right shift.
.TP 20
\fB<\0\0>\0\0<=\0\0>=\fR
Boolean less, greater, less than or equal, and greater than or equal.
Each operator produces 1 if the condition is true, 0 otherwise.
.TP 20
\fB==\0\0!=\fR
Boolean equal and not equal.  Each operator produces a zero/one result.
.TP 20
\fB&\fR
Bit-wise AND.
.TP 20
\fB^\fR
Bit-wise exclusive OR.
.TP 20
\fB|\fR
Bit-wise OR.
.TP 20
\fB&&\fR
Logical AND.  Produces a 1 result if both operands are non-zero, 0 otherwise.
.TP 20
\fB||\fR
Logical OR.  Produces a 0 result if both operands are zero, 1 otherwise.
.PP
See the C manual for more details on the results
produced by each operator.
All of the binary operators group left-to-right within the same
precedence level.  For example, the expression
.DS
\fB(4*2) < 7\fR
.DE
evaluates to 0.  Evaluating the expression string
.DS
\fB($a + 3) < [set b]\fR
.DE
will cause the values of the variables \fBa\fR and \fBb\fR to be
examined;  the result will be 1
if \fBb\fR is greater than a by at least 3;  otherwise the result
will be 0.
.PP
In general it is safest to enclose an expression in braces when
entering it in a command:  otherwise, if the expression contains
any white space then the Tcl interpreter will split it
among several arguments.  For example, the command
.DS C
\fBexpr $a + $b\fR
.DE
results in three arguments being passed to \fBexpr\fR:  \fB$a\fR,
\fB+\fR, and \fB$b\fR.  In addition, if the expression isn't in braces
then the Tcl interpreter will perform variable and command substitution
immediately (it will happen in the command parser rather than in
the expression parser).  In many cases the expression is being
passed to a command that will evaluate the expression later (or
even many times if, for example, the expression is to be used to
decide when to exit a loop).  Usually the desired goal is to re-do
the variable or command substitutions each time the expression is
evaluated, rather than once and for all at the beginning.  For example,
the command
.DS C
\fBfor {set i 1} $i<=10 {set i [expr $i+1]} {...}\fR
.DE
is probably intended to iterate over all values of \fBi\fR from 1 to 10.
After each iteration of the body of the loop, \fBfor\fR will pass
its second argument to the expression evaluator to see whether or not
to continue processing.  Unfortunately, in this case the value of \fBi\fR
in the second argument will be substituted once and for all when the
\fBfor\fR command is parsed.  If \fBi\fR was 0 before the \fBfor\fR
command was invoked then \fBfor\fR's second argument will be \fB0<=10\fR
which will always evaluate to 1, even though \fBi\fR's value eventually
becomes greater than 10.  In the above case the loop will never
terminate.  By placing the expression in braces, the
substitution of \fBi\fR's
value will be delayed;  it will be re-done each time the expression is
evaluated, which is probably the desired result.

.SH LISTS
.PP
The third major way that strings are interpreted in Tcl is as lists.
A list is just a string with a list-like structure
consisting of fields separated by white space.  For example, the
string
.DS
\fBAl Sue Anne John\fR
.DE
is a list with four elements or fields.
Lists have the same basic structure as command strings, except
that a newline character in a list is treated as a field separator
just like space or tab.  Conventions for braces
and backslashes are the same for lists as for commands.  For example,
the string
.DS
\fBa b\e c {d e {f g h}}\fR
.DE
is a list with three elements:  \fBa\fR, \fBb c\fR, and \fBd e {f g h}\fR.
Whenever an element
is extracted from a list, the same rules about backslashes and
braces are applied as for commands.  Thus in the example above
when the third element is extracted from the list, the result is
.DS
\fBd e {f g h}\fR
.DE
(when the field was extracted, all that happened was to strip off
the outermost layer of braces).  Command substitution is never
made on a list (at least, not by the list-processing commands;  the
list can always be passed to the Tcl interpreter for evaluation).
.PP
The Tcl commands \fBconcat\fR, \fBforeach\fR, \fBindex\fR,
\fBlength\fR, \fBlist\fR, and \fBrange\fR allow you to build lists,
extract elements from them, search them, and perform other list-related
functions.

.SH "COMMAND RESULTS"
.PP
Each command produces two results:  a code and a string.  The
code indicates whether the command completed successfully or not,
and the string gives additional information.  The valid codes are
defined in tcl.h, and are:
.RS
.TP 20
\fBTCL_OK\fR
This is the normal return code, and indicates that the command completed
succesfully.  The string gives the command's return value.
.TP 20
\fBTCL_ERROR\fR
Indicates that an error occurred;  the string gives a message describing
the error.
.VS
The variable \fBerrorInfo\fR will contain additional information
describing which commands and procedures were being executed when the
error occurred.
.VE
.TP 20
\fBTCL_RETURN\fR
Indicates that the \fBreturn\fR command has been invoked, and that the
.VS
current procedure (or top-level command or \fBsource\fR command)
should return immediately.  The
string gives the return value for the procedure or command.
.VE
.TP 20
\fBTCL_BREAK\fR
Indicates that the \fBbreak\fR command has been invoked, so the
innermost loop should abort immediately.  The string should always
be empty.
.TP 20
\fBTCL_CONTINUE\fR
Indicates that the \fBcontinue\fR command has been invoked, so the
innermost loop should go on to the next iteration.  The string
should always be empty.
.RE
Tcl programmers do not normally need to think about return codes,
since TCL_OK is almost always returned.  If anything else is returned
by a command, then the Tcl interpreter immediately stops processing
commands and returns to its caller.  If there are several nested
invocations of the Tcl interpreter in progress, then each nested
command will usually return the error to its caller, until eventually
the error is reported to the top-level application code.  The
application will then display the error message for the user.
.PP
In a few cases, some commands will handle certain ``error'' conditions
themselves and not return them upwards.  For example, the \fBfor\fR
command checks for the TCL_BREAK code;  if it occurs, then \fBfor\fR
stops executing the body of the loop and returns TCL_OK to its
caller.  The \fBfor\fR command also handles TCL_CONTINUE codes and the
procedure interpreter handles TCL_RETURN codes.  The \fBcatch\fR
command allows Tcl programs to catch errors and handle them without
aborting command interpretation any further.

.SH PROCEDURES
.PP
Tcl allows you to extend the command interface by defining
procedures.  A Tcl procedure can be invoked just like any other Tcl
command (it has a name and it receives one or more arguments).
The only difference is that its body isn't a piece of C code linked
into the program;  it is a string containing one or more other
Tcl commands.  See the \fBproc\fR command for information on
how to define procedures and what happens when they are invoked.

.SH VARIABLES
.PP
Tcl allows the definition of variables and the use of their values
either through \fB$\fR-style variable substitution, the \fBset\fR
command, or a few other mechanisms.  Variables need not be declared:
a new variable will automatically be created each time a new variable
name is used.  Variables may be either global or local.  If a variable
name is used when a procedure isn't being executed, then it
automatically refers to a global variable.  Variable names used
within a procedure normally refer to local variables associated with that
invocation of the procedure.  Local variables are deleted whenever
a procedure exits.  The \fBglobal\fR command may be used to request
that a name refer to a global variable for the duration of the current
procedure (this is somewhat analogous to \fBextern\fR in C).

.SH "BUILT-IN COMMANDS"
.PP
The Tcl library provides the following built-in commands, which will
be available in any application using Tcl.  In addition to these
built-in commands, there may be additional commands defined by each
application, plus commands defined as Tcl procedures.  In the command syntax
descriptions below, optional arguments are indicated by enclosing their
names in brackets;  apologies in advance for the confusion between this
descriptive use of brackets and the use of brackets to group commands.
Words in boldface are literals that you type verbatim to Tcl.
Words in italics are meta-symbols;  they act as names to refer to
a class of values that you can type.
.TP
\fBbreak\fR
This command may be invoked only inside the body of a loop command
such as \fBfor\fR or \fBforeach\fR.  It returns a TCL_BREAK code
to signal the innermost containing loop command to return immediately.
.TP
\fBcase\fI string \fR[\fBin\fR] \fIpatList body patList body \fR...
.VS
Match \fIstring\fR against each of the \fIpatList\fR arguments
in order.  If one matches, then evaluate the following \fIbody\fR argument
by passing it recursively to the Tcl interpreter, and return the result
of that evaluation.  Each \fIpatList\fR argument consists of a single
pattern or list of patterns.  Each pattern may contain any of the wild-cards
described under \fBstring match\fR.  If a \fIpatList\fR
argument is \fBdefault\fR, the corresponding body will be evaluated
if no \fIpatList\fR matches \fIstring\fR.  If no \fIpatList\fR argument
matches \fIstring\fR and no default is given, then the \fBcase\fR
command returns an empty string.  For example,
.RS
.DS
\fBcase abc in {a b} {format 1} default {format 2} a* {format 3}
.DE
will return \fB3\fR, 
.DS
\fBcase a in {a b} {format 1} default {format 2} a* {format 3}
.DE
will return \fB1\fR, and
.DS
\fBcase xyz {a b} {format 1} default {format 2} a* {format 3}
.DE
will return \fB2\fR.
.RE
.VE
.TP
\fBcatch\fI command \fR[\fIvarName\fR]
The \fBcatch\fR command may be used to prevent errors from aborting
command interpretation.  \fBCatch\fR calls the Tcl interpreter recursively
to execute \fIcommand\fR, and always returns a TCL_OK code, regardless of
any errors that might occur while executing \fIcommand\fR.  The return
value from \fBcatch\fR is a decimal string giving the
code returned by the Tcl interpreter after executing \fIcommand\fR.
This will be \fB0\fR (TCL_OK) if there were no errors in \fIcommand\fR; otherwise
it will have a non-zero value corresponding to one of the exceptional
return codes (see tcl.h for the definitions of code values).  If the
\fIvarName\fR argument is given, then it gives the name of a variable;
\fBcatch\fR will set the value of the variable to the string returned
from \fIcommand\fR (either a result or an error message).
.TP
\fBconcat\fI arg arg ...\fR
This command treats each argument as a list and concatenates them
into a single list.  It permits any number of arguments.  For example,
the command
.RS
.DS
\fBconcat a b {c d e} {f {g h}}\fR
.DE
will return
.DS
\fBa b c d e f {g h}\fR
.DE
as its result.
.RE
.TP
\fBcontinue\fR
This command may be invoked only inside the body of a loop command
such as \fBfor\fR or \fBforeach\fR.  It returns a  TCL_CONTINUE code
to signal the innermost containing loop command to skip the
remainder of the loop's body
but continue with the next iteration of the loop.
.TP
\fBerror \fImessage\fR
Returns a TCL_ERROR code, which causes command interpretation to be
unwound.  \fIMessage\fR is a string that is returned to the application
to indicate what went wrong.
.VS
.TP
\fBeval \fIarg1 arg2 ...\fR
\fBEval\fR takes one or more arguments, which together comprise a Tcl
command (or collection of Tcl commands separated by newlines in the
usual way).  \fBEval\fR concatenates all its arguments in the same
fashion as the \fBconcat\fR command, passes the concatenated string to the
Tcl interpreter recursively, and returns the result of that
evaluation (or any error generated by it).
.VE
.TP
\fBexec \fIcommand arg1 arg2 ...\fR[\fB< \fIinput\fR]
The \fBexec\fR command treats its \fIcommand\fR argument as the name of
a program to execute.  It searches the directories in
the PATH environment variable to find
an executable file by the name \fIcommand\fR,
then executes the file, passing it an argument list consisting of
\fIcommand\fR plus all of the \fIarg\fRs.  If an argument \fB<\fR appears
anywhere among the arguments to \fBexec\fR, then neither it or the
following argument is passed to \fIcommand\fR.  Instead, the following
argument (\fIinput\fR) consists of input to the command;  \fBexec\fR
will create a pipe and use it to pass \fIinput\fR to \fIcommand\fR
as standard input.  \fBExec\fR also creates a pipe to receive \fIcommand\fR's
output (both standard output and standard error).  The information
received over this pipe is returned as the result of the \fBexec\fR
command.  The \fBexec\fR command also looks at the return status
returned by \fIcommand\fR.  Normally this should be zero;  if it is then
\fBexec\fR returns normally.  If \fIcommand\fR returns a non-zero status,
then \fBexec\fR will return that code;  it should be one of the ones
defined in the section ``COMMAND RESULTS'' above.  If an out-of range
code is returned by the command, it will cause command unwinding just
as if TCL_ERROR had been returned; at the outermost level of command
interpretation, the Tcl interpreter will turn the code into TCL_ERROR,
with an appropriate error message.
.TP
\fBexpr \fIarg\fR
Calls the expression processor to evaluate \fIarg\fR, and returns
the result as a decimal string.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname\fR \fIoption\fR
Operate on a file or a file name.  \fIName\fR is the name of a file, and
\fIoption\fR indicates what to do with the file name.  Any unique
abbreviation for \fIoption\fR is acceptable.  The valid options are:
.RS
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBdirname\fR
Return all of the characters in \fIname\fR up to but not including
the last slash character.  If there are no slashes in \fIname\fR
then return ``.''.  If the last slash in \fIname\fR is its first
character, then return ``/''.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBexecutable\fR
Return \fB1\fR if file \fIname\fR is executable by
the current user, \fB0\fR otherwise.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBexists\fR
Return \fB1\fR if file \fIname\fR exists and the current user has
search privileges for the directories leading to it, \fB0\fR otherwise.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBextension\fR
Return all of the characters in \fIname\fR after and including the
last dot in \fIname\fR.  If there is no dot in \fIname\fR then return
the empty string.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBisdirectory\fR
Return \fB1\fR if file \fIname\fR is a directory,
\fB0\fR otherwise.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBisfile\fR
Return \fB1\fR if file \fIname\fR is a regular file,
\fB0\fR otherwise.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBowned\fR
Return \fB1\fR if file \fIname\fR is owned by the current user,
\fB0\fR otherwise.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBreadable\fR
Return \fB1\fR if file \fIname\fR is readable by
the current user, \fB0\fR otherwise.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBrootname\fR
Return all of the characters in \fIname\fR up to but not including
the last ``.'' character in the name.  If \fIname\fR doesn't contain
a dot, then return \fIname\fR.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBtail\fR
Return all of the characters in \fIname\fR after the last slash.
If \fIname\fR contains no slashes then return \fIname\fR.
.TP
\fBfile \fIname \fBwritable\fR
Return \fB1\fR if file \fIname\fR is writable by
the current user, \fB0\fR otherwise.
.RE
.IP
The \fBfile\fR commands that return 0/1 results are often used in
conditional or looping commands, for example:
.RS
.DS
\fBif {![file foo exists]} then {error {bad file name}} else {...}\fR
.DE
.RE
.TP
\fBfor \fIstart test next body\fR
\fBFor\fR is a looping command, similar in structure to the C
\fBfor\fR statement.  The \fIstart\fR, \fInext\fR, and
\fIbody\fR arguments must be Tcl command strings, and \fItest\fR
is an expression string.
The \fBfor\fR command first invokes the Tcl interpreter to
execute \fIfirst\fR.  Then it repeatedly evaluates \fItest\fR as
an expression;  if the result is non-zero it invokes the Tcl
interpreter on \fIbody\fR, then invokes the Tcl interpreter on \fInext\fR,
then repeats the loop.  The command terminates when \fItest\fR evaluates
to 0.  If a \fBcontinue\fR command is invoked within \fIbody\fR then
any remaining commands in the current execution of \fIbody\fR are skipped;
processing continues by invoking the Tcl interpreter on \fInext\fR, then
evaluating \fItest\fR, and so on.  If a \fBbreak\fR command is invoked
within \fIbody\fR
.VS
or \fInext\fR,
.VE
then the \fBfor\fR command will
return immediately.
The operation of \fBbreak\fR and \fBcontinue\fR are similar to the
corresponding statements in C.
\fBFor\fR returns an empty string.
.TP
\fBforeach \fIvarname list body\fR
In this command, \fIvarname\fR is the name of a variable, \fIlist\fR
is a list of values to assign to \fIvarname\fR, and \fIbody\fR is a
collection of Tcl commands.  For each field in \fIlist\fR (in order
from left to right), \fBforeach\fR assigns the contents of the
field to \fIvarname\fR (as if the \fBindex\fR command had been used
to extract the field), then calls the Tcl interpreter to execute
\fIbody\fR.  The \fBbreak\fR and \fBcontinue\fR statements may be
invoked inside \fIbody\fR, with the same effect as in the \fBfor\fR
command.  \fBForeach\fR an empty string.
.TP
\fBformat \fIformatString arg arg ...\fR
This command generates a formatted string in the same way as the
C \fBsprintf\fR procedure (it uses \fBsprintf\fR in its
implementation).  \fIFormatString\fR indicates how to format
the result, using \fB%\fR fields as in \fBsprintf\fR, and the additional
arguments, if any, provide values to be substituted into the result.
All of the \fBsprintf\fR options are valid;  see the \fBsprintf\fR
man page for details.  Each \fIarg\fR must match the expected type
from the \fB%\fR field in \fIformatString\fR;  the \fBformat\fR command
converts each argument to the correct type (floating, integer, etc.)
before passing it to \fBsprintf\fR for formatting.
The only unusual conversion is for \fB%c\fR;  in this case the argument
must be a decimal string, which will then be converted to the corresponding
ASCII character value.
\fBFormat\fR does backslash substitution on its \fIformatString\fR
argument, so backslash sequences in \fIformatString\fR will be handled
correctly even if the argument is in braces.
The return value from \fBformat\fR
is the formatted string.
.TP
\fBglob \fIfilename\fR
.VS
This command performs filename globbing, using csh rules.  The returned
value from \fBglob\fR is the list of expanded filenames.
.VE
.TP
\fBglobal \fIvarname varname ...\fR
This command is ignored unless a Tcl procedure is being interpreted.
If so, then it declares the given \fIvarname\fR's to be global variables
rather than local ones.  For the duration of the current procedure
(and only while executing in the current procedure), any reference to
any of the \fIvarname\fRs will be bound to a global variable instead
of a local one.
.TP
\fBif \fItest \fR[\fBthen\fR] \fItrueBody \fR[[\fBelse\fR] \fIfalseBody\fR]
The \fIif\fR command evaluates \fItest\fR as an expression (in the
same way that \fBexpr\fR evaluates its argument).  If the
result is non-zero then \fItrueBody\fR is called by passing it to the
Tcl interpreter.  Otherwise \fIfalseBody\fR is executed by passing it to
the Tcl interpreter.  The \fBthen\fR and \fBelse\fR arguments are optional
``noise words'' to make the command easier to read.  \fIFalseBody\fR is
also optional;  if it isn't specified then the command does nothing if
\fItest\fR evaluates to zero.  The return value from \fBif\fR is
the value of the last command executed in \fItrueBody\fR or
\fIfalseBody\fR, or the empty string if \fItest\fR evaluates to zero and
\fIfalseBody\fR isn't specified.
.TP
\fBindex \fIvalue index \fR[\fBchars\fR]
Extract an element from a list or a character from a string.  If the
\fBchars\fR keyword isn't specified, then \fBindex\fR treats \fIvalue\fR
as a list and returns the \fIindex\fR'th field from it.  In extracting
the field, \fIindex\fR observes the same rules concerning braces
and backslashes as the Tcl command interpreter;  however, variable
substitution and command substitution do not occur.  If \fIindex\fR is
greater than or equal to the number of elements in \fIvalue\fR, then the empty
string is returned.  If the \fBchars\fR keyword is specified (or any
abbreviation of it), then \fIvalue\fR is treated as a string and the
command returns the \fIindex\fR'th character from it (or the empty string
if there aren't at least \fIindex\fR+1 characters in the string).
Index 0 refers to the first element or character of \fIvalue\fR.
.TP
\fBinfo \fIoption arg arg ...\fR
Provide information about various internals to the Tcl interpreter.
The legal \fIoption\fR's (which may be abbreviated) are:
.RS
.TP
\fBinfo args \fIprocname\fR
Returns a list containing the names of the arguments to procedure
\fIprocname\fR, in order.  \fIProcname\fR must be the name of a
Tcl command procedure.
.TP
\fBinfo body \fIprocname\fR
Returns the body of procedure \fIprocname\fR.  \fIProcname\fR must be
the name of a Tcl command procedure.
.TP
\fBinfo commands \fR[\fIpattern\fR]
.VS
If \fIpattern\fR isn't specified, returns a list of names of all the
Tcl commands, including both the built-in commands written in C and
the command procedures defined using the \fBproc\fR command.
If \fIpattern\fR is specified, only those names matching \fIpattern\fR
are returned.  Matching is determined using the same rules as for
\fBstring match\fR.
.VE
.TP
\fBinfo cmdcount\fR
Returns a count of the total number of commands that have been invoked
in this interpreter.
.TP
\fBinfo default \fIprocname arg varname\fR
\fIProcname\fR must be the name of a Tcl command procedure and \fIarg\fR
must be the name of an argument to that procedure.  If \fIarg\fR
doesn't have a default value then the command returns \fB0\fR.
Otherwise it returns \fB1\fR and places the default value of \fIarg\fR
into variable \fIvarname\fR.
.TP
\fBinfo globals \fR[\fIpattern\fR]
.VS
If \fIpattern\fR isn't specified, returns a list of all the names
of currently-defined global variables.
If \fIpattern\fR is specified, only those names matching \fIpattern\fR
are returned.  Matching is determined using the same rules as for
\fBstring match\fR.
.TP
\fBinfo level\fR [\fInumber\fR]
If \fInumber\fR is not specified, this command returns a number
giving the stack level of the invoking procedure, or 0 if the
command is invoked at top-level.  If \fInumber\fR is specified,
then the result is a list consisting of the name and arguments for the
procedure call at level \fInumber\fR on the stack.  If \fInumber\fR
is positive then it selects a particular stack level (1 refers
to the top-most active procedure, 2 to the procedure it called, and
so on);  otherwise it gives a level relative to the current level
(0 refers to the current procedure, -1 to its caller, and so on).
See the \fBuplevel\fR command for more information on what stack
levels mean.
.TP
\fBinfo locals \fR[\fIpattern\fR]
If \fIpattern\fR isn't specified, returns a list of all the names
of currently-defined local variables, including arguments to the
current procedure, if any.
If \fIpattern\fR is specified, only those names matching \fIpattern\fR
are returned.  Matching is determined using the same rules as for
\fBstring match\fR.
.TP
\fBinfo procs \fR[\fIpattern\fR]
If \fIpattern\fR isn't specified, returns a list of all the
names of Tcl command procedures.
If \fIpattern\fR is specified, only those names matching \fIpattern\fR
are returned.  Matching is determined using the same rules as for
\fBstring match\fR.
.TP
\fBinfo tclversion\fR
Returns the version number for this version of Tcl in the form \fIx.y\fR,
where changes to \fIx\fR represent major changes with probable
incompatibilities and changes to \fIy\fR represent small enhancements and
bug fixes that retain backward compatibility.
.VE
.TP
\fBinfo vars\fR
Returns a list of all the names of currently-visible variables, including
both locals and currently-visible globals.
.RE
.TP
\fBlength \fIvalue\fR [\fBchars\fR]
If \fBchars\fR isn't specified, treats \fIvalue\fR as a list
and returns the number of elements in the list.  If \fBchars\fR
is specified (or any abbreviation of it), then \fBlength\fR
treats \fIvalue\fR as a string and returns the number of characters
in it (not including the terminating null character).
.TP
\fBlist \fIarg1 arg2 ...\fR
This command returns a list comprised of all the \fIarg\fRs.  Braces
and backslashes get added as necessary, so that the \fBindex\fR command
may be used on the result to re-extract the original arguments, and also
so that \fBeval\fR may be used to execute the resulting list, with
\fIarg1\fR comprising the command's name and the other \fIarg\fRs comprising
its arguments.  \fBList\fR produces slightly different results than
\fBconcat\fR:  \fBconcat\fR removes one level of grouping before forming
the list, while \fBlist\fR works directly from the original arguments.
For example, the command
.RS
.DS
\fBlist a b {c d e} {f {g h}}
.DE
will return
.DS
\fBa b {c d e} {f {g h}}
.DE
while \fBconcat\fR with the same arguments will return
.DS
\fBa b c d e f {g h}\fR
.DE
.RE
.TP
\fBprint \fIstring \fR[\fIfile \fR[\fBappend\fR]]
.VS
Print the \fIstring\fR argument.  If no \fIfile\fR is specified then
\fIstring\fR is output to the standard output file.  If \fIfile\fR is
specified, then \fIstring\fR is output to that file.  If the \fBappend\fR
option is given, then \fIstring\fR is appended to \fIfile\fR;  otherwise
any existing contents of \fIfile\fR are discarded before \fIstring\fR
is written to the file.
.VE
.TP
\fBproc \fIname args body\fR
The \fBproc\fR command creates a new Tcl command procedure,
\fIname\fR, replacing
any existing command there may have been by that name.  Whenever the
new command is invoked, the contents of \fIbody\fR will be executed
by the Tcl interpreter.  \fIArgs\fR specifies the formal arguments to the
procedure.  It consists of a list, possibly empty, each of whose
elements specifies
one argument.  Each argument specifier is also a list with either
one or two fields.  If there is only a single field in the specifier,
then it is the name of the argument;  if there are two fields, then
the first is the argument name and the second is its default value.
braces and backslashes may be used in the usual way to specify
complex default values.
.IP
When \fIname\fR is invoked, a local variable
will be created for each of the formal arguments to the procedure;  its
value will be the value of corresponding argument in the invoking command
or the argument's default value.
Arguments with default values need not be
specified in a procedure invocation.  However, there must be enough
actual arguments for all the
formal arguments that don't have defaults, and there must not be any extra
actual arguments.  There is one special case to permit procedures with
variable numbers of arguments.  If the last formal argument has the name
\fBargs\fR, then a call to the procedure may contain more actual arguments
than the procedure has formals.  In this case, all of the actual arguments
starting at the one that would be assigned to \fBargs\fR are combined into
a list (as if the \fBlist\fR command had been used);  this combined value
is assigned to the local variable \fBargs\fR.
.IP
When \fIbody\fR is being executed, variable names normally refer to
local variables, which are created automatically when referenced and
deleted when the procedure returns.  One local variable is automatically
created for each of the procedure's arguments.
Global variables can only be accessed by invoking
the \fBglobal\fR command.
.IP
The \fBproc\fR command returns the null string.  When a procedure is
invoked, the procedure's return value is the value specified in a
\fBreturn\fR command.  If the procedure doesn't execute an explicit
\fBreturn\fR, then its return value is the value of the last command
executed in the procedure's body.
If an error occurs while executing the procedure
body, then the procedure-as-a-whole will return that same error.
.TP
\fBrange \fIvalue first last \fR[\fBchars\fR]
Return a range of fields or characters from \fIvalue\fR.  If the
\fBchars\fR keyword isn't specified, then \fIvalue\fR must be
a list and \fBrange\fR will return a new list consisting of elements
\fIfirst\fR through \fIlast\fR, inclusive.  The
special keyword \fBend\fR may be specified for \fIlast\fR; in
this case all the elements of \fIvalue\fR starting at \fIfirst\fR
are returned.  If the \fBchars\fR keyword, or any abbreviation of
it, is specified, then \fBrange\fR treats \fIvalue\fR as a character
string and returns characters \fIfirst\fR through \fIlast\fR of
it, inclusive.  Once again, the \fBend\fR keyword may be used for
\fIlast\fR.  In both cases if a \fIlast\fR value is specified greater
than the size of \fIvalue\fR it is equivalent to specifying \fBend\fR;
if \fIlast\fR is less than \fIfirst\fR then an empty string is returned.
Note: ``\fBrange \fIvalue first first\fR'' does not always produce the
same results as ``\fBindex \fIvalue first\fR'' (although it often does
for simple fields that aren't enclosed in braces);  it does, however,
produce exactly the same results as ``\fBlist [index \fIvalue first\fB]\fR''
.TP
\fBrename \fIoldName newName\fR
.VS
Rename the command that used to be called \fIoldName\fR so that it
is now called \fInewName\fR.  If \fInewName\fR is an empty string
(e.g. {}) then \fIoldName\fR is deleted.  The \fBrename\fR command
returns an empty string as result.
.VE
.TP
\fBreturn \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
Return immediately from the current procedure
.VS
(or top-level command or \fBsource\fR command),
.VE
with \fIvalue\fR as the return value.  If \fIvalue\fR is not specified,
an empty string will be returned as result.
.VE
.TP
\fBscan \fIstring format varname1 varname2 ...\fR
This command parses fields from an input string in the same fashion
as the C \fBsscanf\fR procedure.  \fIString\fR gives the input to
be parsed and \fIformat\fR indicates how to parse it, using \fB%\fR
fields as in \fBsscanf\fR.  All of the \fBsscanf\fR options are valid;
see the \fBsscanf\fR man page for details.  Each \fIvarname\fR gives
the name of a variable;  when a field is scanned from \fIstring\fR,
the result is converted back into a string and assigned to the
corresponding \fIvarname\fR.  The only unusual conversion is for
\fB%c\fR;  in this case, the character value is converted to a
decimal string, which is then assigned to the corresponding \fIvarname\fR.
.VS
.TP
\fBset \fIvarname \fR[\fIvalue\fR]
If \fIvalue\fR isn't specified, then return the current value of
\fIvarname\fR.  If \fIvarname\fR isn't defined as a variable, then
return the empty string.  If \fIvalue\fR is specified, then set
the value of \fIvarname\fR to \fIvalue\fR, creating a new variable
if one doesn't already exist.  If no procedure is active, then
\fIvarname\fR refers to a global variable.  If a procedure is
active, then \fIvarname\fR refers to a parameter or local variable
of the procedure, unless the \fIglobal\fR command has been invoked
to declare \fIvarname\fR to be global.
.VE
.TP
\fBsource \fIfileName\fR
Read file \fIfileName\fR and pass the contents to the Tcl interpreter
as a sequence of commands to execute in the normal fashion.  The return
value of \fBsource\fR is the return value of the last command executed
from the file.  If an error occurs in executing the contents of the
file, then the \fBsource\fR command will return that error.
.VS
If a \fBreturn\fR command is invoked from within the file, the remainder of
the file will be skipped and the \fBsource\fR command will return
normally with the result from the \fBreturn\fR command.
.VE
.TP
\fBstring \fIoption a b\fR
Perform a string operation on the two operands \fIa\fR and \fIb\fR,
based on \fIoption\fR.  The possible options are:
.RS
.TP
\fBstring compare \fIa b\fR
Perform a character-by-character comparison of strings \fIa\fR and
\fIb\fR, in the same way as the C \fBstrcmp\fR procedure.  Return
-1, 0, or 1, depending on whether \fIa\fR is lexicographically
less than, equal to, or greater than \fIb\fR.
.TP
\fBstring first \fIa b\fR
Search \fIb\fR for a sequence of characters that exactly match
the characters in \fIa\fR.  If found, return the index of the
first character in the first such match within \fIb\fR.  If not
found, return -1.
.TP
\fBstring last \fIa b\fR
Search \fIb\fR for a sequence of characters that exactly match
the characters in \fIa\fR.  If found, return the index of the
first character in the last such match within \fIb\fR.  If there
is no match, then return -1.
.br
.VS
.TP
\fBstring match \fIpattern\fR \fIstring\fR
See if \fIpattern\fR matches \fIstring\fR;  return 1 if it does, 0
if it doesn't.  Matching is done in a fashion similar to that
used by the C-shell.  For the two strings to match, their contents
must be identical except that the following special sequences
may appear in \fIpattern\fR:
.RS
.IP \fB*\fR 10
Matches any sequence of characters in \fIstring\fR,
including a null string.
.IP \fB?\fR 10
Matches any single character in \fIstring\fR.
.IP \fB[\fIchars\fB]\fR 10
Matches any character in the set given by \fIchars\fR.  If a sequence
of the form
\fIx\fB\-\fIy\fR appears in \fIchars\fR, then any character
between \fIx\fR and \fIy\fR, inclusive, will match.
.IP\fB\e\fIx\fR 10
Matches the single character \fIx\fR.  This provides a way of
avoiding the special interpretation of the characters
\fB*?[]\e\fR in \fIpattern\fR.
.RE
.RE
.VE
.IP
Unique abbreviations for \fIoption\fR are acceptable.
.TP
\fBtime \fIcommand\fR [\fIcount\fR]
This command will call the Tcl interpreter \fIcount\fR
times to execute \fIcommand\fR (or once if \fIcount\fR isn't
specified).  It will then return a string of the form
.RS
.DS
\fB503 microseconds per iteration\fR
.DE
which indicates the average amount of time required per iteration,
in microseconds.
Time is measured in elapsed time, not CPU time.
.RE
.TP
\fBuplevel \fIlevel command command ...\fR
.VS
All of the \fIcommand\fR arguments are concatenated as if they had
been passed to \fBconcat\fR and the result is evaluated in the
variable context indicated by \fIlevel\fR.  \fBUplevel\fR returns
the result of that evaluation.  If \fIlevel\fR is zero,
then top-level context is used (all variable names refer to global
variables).  If \fIlevel\fR is a positive number, then it is treated
as a stack level:  1 refers to the topmost active procedure, 2 to the
procedure it called, and so on.  If \fIlevel\fR is a negative number,
then it is treated as a level relative to the current
procedure.  For example, a \fIlevel\fR of -1 refers to the procedure
that called the
one invoking the \fBuplevel\fR command (which is top-level if the
procedure invoking \fBuplevel\fR is at level 1).
The \fBuplevel\fR command causes the invoking procedure to disappear
from the procedure calling stack while the command is being executed.
For example, suppose procedure \fBx\fR is
at level 3 and invokes the command
.RS
.DS
\fBuplevel -1 {set a 43; c}
.DE
where \fBc\fR is another Tcl procedure.  The \fBset\fR command will
modify variable \fBa\fR in \fBx\fR's caller, and \fBc\fR will execute
at level 3, as if called from \fBx\fR's caller.  If it in turn executes
the command
.DS
\fBuplevel -1 {set a 42}
.DE
then the \fBset\fR command will modify the same variable \fBa\fR in \fBx\fR's
caller:  the procedure \fBx\fR does not appear to be on the call stack
when \fBc\fR is executing.  The command ``\fBinfo level\fR'' may
be used to obtain the level of the current procedure.
\fBUplevel\fR makes it possible to implement new control
constructs as Tcl procedures (for example, \fBuplevel\fR could
be used to implement the \fBwhile\fR construct as a Tcl procedure).
.VE
.RE

.VS
.SH "BUILT-IN VARIABLES"
.PP
The following global variables are created and managed automatically
by the Tcl library.  These variables should normally be treated as
read-only by application-specific code and by users.
.TP
\fBerrorInfo\fR
After an error has occurred, this string will contain two or more lines
identifying the Tcl commands and procedures that were being executed
when the most recent error occurred.
.VE

.SH AUTHOR
John Ousterhout, University of California at Berkeley (ouster@sprite.berkeley.edu)
