{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f27\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f28\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f30\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f31\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f32\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f33\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f34\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f38\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs48 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Title;}}{\info{\author John Howard}{\operator John Howard}{\creatim\yr2004\mo6\dy4\hr9\min47}{\revtim\yr2004\mo6\dy4\hr9\min51}{\version3}{\edmins4}
{\nofpages7}{\nofwords1125}{\nofchars6413}{\nofcharsws7875}{\vern71}}\margl1080\margr1080\margt1080\margb1080 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \linex0\colsx180\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs48 Insulin Bolus Calculator
\par \pard\plain \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f1\fs48\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par }{\f1\fs36\cgrid0 - Overview
\par - Setup Settings
\par - Saving Dosage Data
\par - Changing Meal/Snack Times
\par - Calculating Correct Dosage
\par - Viewing the Dosage History
\par - Viewing Glucose Averages
\par - Viewing Glucose Graphs
\par - Carbohydrates Database
\par - Transferring/Printing Dosage Log
\par - Copyrights/Trademarks/Patents
\par - Support
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs36\cgrid0 \page }{\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Overview
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par The Insulin Bolus Calculator is the brainchild of Dr. Aaron Blum. Dr. Blum is a Board Certified Pediatrician who has been practicing medicine for over 30 years. His sub
-specialty is Diabetic Care. The Insulin Bolus Calculator was developed for Dr. Blum by Breadbox Computer Company, LLC using the GEOS operating system.
\par 
\par In the modern treatment of Diabetes today, we have changed from the twice a day injections to a system 
of multiple daily injections or CSII (pump therapy). Patients take insulin on a Basal/Bolus system. The bolus doses at mealtimes and snack times consist of two components; 1. the correction of the blood glucose number (correcting to a baseline glucose lev
e
l determined by a physician and/or diabetes educator or health care provider), and 2. a dose of insulin that will be appropriate to cover the carbohydrate content of that meal or snack. This Basal/Bolus system requires the patient or caregiver to do compl
ex mathematical calculations at least four times per day in order to administer the correct dose of insulin. This is oftentimes intimidating to patients and their caregivers, and there is great room for human error.
\par 
\par The Insulin Bolus Calculator eliminates all of the complexity and potential errors and provides an accurate and easy way to calculate the required dosage of insulin.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Setup Settings
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par There are three Setup settings which will be determined by the patient's physician and/or caregiver. Use the up/down arrows to change values, or double-tap in desired field to highlight and use number keys to enter correct numbers.
\par 
\par 1. Correction Sensitivity: The amount one unit of insulin lowers blood glucose.
\par 2. Insulin to Carbs Ratio: One unit of insulin per grams of carbohydrates.
\par 3. Glucose Correction To: The target glucose level determined by physician and/or caregiver.
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 \page }{\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Saving Dosage Data
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par Use this feature to save each dosage calculation to the Dosage Log. Default is Save on.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Changing Meal/Snack Times
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par The default meal/snack times may not be suitable for all users.  If they don't fit your life you may change them by tapping the Opts function button to open the Meal Times dialog box.  The times listed a
re all start times for the listed meal/snack.  Please remember that all the times must be in sequence.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Calculating Correct Dosage
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par Use the number keys to enter correct numbers in hilighted field then press Tab key to go to the next field and enter corre
ct number. Or, use the up/down arrows to enter the correct values in each field. Make sure that the Meal selection is appropriate (based on the time of day). Once correct numbers are entered in Input fields, tap Calculate to obtain correct insulin dosage.

\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\ul\cgrid0 Inputs:
\par }{\f1\fs28\cgrid0 Enter the Actual Glucose reading (default mg/dl).
\par Enter the Grams of Carbohydrates of meal/snack.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\ul\cgrid0 Meal}{\f1\fs28\cgrid0 :
\par The appropriate meal/snack is selected based on the time of day.  You may change this if you wish.  The history graphs and averages are based on these meal/snack selections.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\ul\cgrid0 Required Bolus Insulin Dosage:
\par }{\f1\fs28\cgrid0 Select Calculate to automatically determine correct dosage. In certain cases the dosage may be negative.  When th
is happens the calculator will advise you to eat a number of grams of carbohydrates to bring your glucose level up to the target.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 \page }{\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Viewing the Dosage History
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par Tap on the Log menu and select History to bring up the Dosage Log. The data is arranged by the Date and Time of each dose calculation and shows the Glucose reading, grams of Carbs and Dosage.
\par 
\par Tap Clear to clear the data in the log and begin a new log.  Note - All the Graph and Average information is based on this log.  If you clear the log all your history data is gone for good!
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Viewing Glucose Averages
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par Tap on the Log menu and select Averages to bring up the Averages calculation dialog box.  Select the time span over which you want to calculate averages and tap the Calculate button.  You will t
hen see the average glucose reading for each meal/snack (and the number of readings in the average in parentheses) for the selected time period.  You will also see the average Hemoglobin A1C for the selected time period.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Glucose Average Display
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par This dialof box displays the average glucose reading for each meal/snack (and the number of readings in the average in parentheses) for the selected time period.  You will also see the average Hemoglobin A1C for the selected time period.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Viewing Glucose Graphs
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par Tap on the Log menu and select Graphs to bring up a graph of the data contained in the history log file.  You have two graph modes from which to choose: Meals (the default) and Days.  Change modes by tapping the Opts button and then your selection.  Sele
cting Limits from the Opts menu lets you move the upper and lower limit lines that show in both graph modes.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\ul\cgrid0 Meals Mode
\par }{\f1\fs28\cgrid0 Displays the glucose reading for each meal/snack along the horizontal axis.  Scroll the graph one day right or left using the inner (shorter) arrow buttons and one page right or left using the outer (longer) arrow buttons.
\par 
\par }{\b\f1\fs28\ul\cgrid0 Days Mode
\par }{\f1\fs28\cgrid0 Displays all glucose readings for a given day on a single column with days along the horizontal axis.  Scroll the graph seven days righ
t or left using the inner (shorter) arrow buttons and one page right or left using the outer (longer) arrow buttons.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Setting Graph Limits
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par Use the selectors to reposition the upper and lower glucose limit lines that are displayed in the glucose graphs.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Carbohydrates Database
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par This list of foods and their carbohydrates content is taken directly from the USDA National Nutrient Database carbohydrates nutrient list.  It lists 1147 food items and the grams of carbohydrates for common household measures.  F
or full details on this list go to: www.nal.usda.gov/fnic/foodcomp/Data
\par 
\par Due to screen size constraints you may not see the entire description of every food item or portion size.  To see the full text of each item tap the 'Show' button.
\par 
\par You may add your favorite foods to this list, delete foods from this list or modify any items on the list by tapping the 'Edit' button and selecting the appropriate menu item.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Carbohydrate Details
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par This window shows the entire text of the selected food's database item.  You may navigate through the database from this screen using the Arrow, Page Up, Page Down, Home and End keys.
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Add to Carbohydrates List
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par Enter the food item, portion size and grams of carbohydrates and tap the 'Add' button.  The food item will be added into the database in alphabetical order.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Modify a Carbohydrate Item
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par Make any changes to an existing database item and tap the 'Modify' button to enter your changes into the databse.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Transferring/Printing the Dosage Log
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par The log can be transferred to a PC or printer for a permanent record.
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 \page }{\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Copyright/Trademarks/Patents
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par Copyright 1994 - 2004 Dr. Aaron Blum and Breadbox Computer Company LLC. All rights reserved.
\par 
\par Breadbox\'ae and GEOS\'ae are registered trademarks of Breadbox Computer Company, LLC in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. Patent Number 5,327,529.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\fs36\cgrid0 Support
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs28\cgrid0 
\par If you would like to contact us with any questions, comments or suggestions, please feel free to do so by writing, faxing, calling or emailing us at the following:
\par 
\par Breadbox Computer Company
\par PO Box 808
\par Port Richey, FL 34673-0808
\par tel (727) 859-9909
\par fax (727) 859-9910
\par 
\par email: support@breadbox.com
\par 
\par For the latest information on all Breadbox products visit our Web site at:
\par 
\par http://www.breadbox.com
\par 
\par Thank you for using a Breadbox Computer Company LLC product
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }}